-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
cgknaizj drar pj wgqa xein - jqojzpzqzpgk_cpbdraj_iar_jgeyioer_xnkyynkmsj
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
pk i ypeeinr gx ei sikcdi, zdr kisr gx fdpcd p diyr kg mrjpar zg ciee zg
spkm, zdrar epyrm kgz egkn jpkcr gkr gx zdgjr nrkzersrk zdiz lrrb i eikcr
pk zdr eikcr-aicl, ik gem oqclera, i erik dicl, ikm i narwdgqkm xga
cgqajpkn. ik geei gx aizdra sgar orrx zdik sqzzgk, i jieim gk sgjz
kpndzj, jcaibj gk jizqamiwj, erkzpej gk xapmiwj, ikm i bpnrgk ga jg rhzai
gk jqkmiwj, simr ifiw fpzd zdarr-vqiazraj gx dpj pkcgsr. zdr arjz gx pz
frkz pk i mgqoerz gx xpkr cegzd ikm yreyrz oarrcdrj ikm jdgrj zg sizcd
xga dgepmiwj, fdper gk frrl-miwj dr simr i oaiyr xpnqar pk dpj orjz
dgsrjbqk. dr dim pk dpj dgqjr i dgqjrlrrbra bijz xgazw, i kprcr qkmra
zfrkzw, ikm i eim xga zdr xprem ikm sialrz-beicr, fdg qjrm zg jimmer zdr
dicl ij free ij dikmer zdr opee-dggl. zdr inr gx zdpj nrkzersik gx gqaj
fij ogamrapkn gk xpxzw; dr fij gx i diamw diopz, jbiar, niqkz-xrizqarm, i
yraw riaew apjra ikm i nariz jbgazjsik. zdrw fpee diyr pz dpj jqakisr fij
vqphimi ga vqrjimi (xga drar zdrar pj jgsr mpxxrarkcr gx gbpkpgk isgkn
zdr iqzdgaj fdg fapzr gk zdr jqotrcz), iezdgqnd xags arijgkioer
cgktrczqarj pz jrrsj beipk zdiz dr fij cieerm vqrhiki. zdpj, dgfryra, pj
gx oqz epzzer psbgazikcr zg gqa zier; pz fpee or rkgqnd kgz zg jzaiw i
dipa'j oarimzd xags zdr zaqzd pk zdr zreepkn gx pz.

wgq sqjz lkgf, zdrk, zdiz zdr iogyr-kisrm nrkzersik fdrkryra dr fij iz
erpjqar (fdpcd fij sgjzew iee zdr wria agqkm) niyr dpsjrex qb zg arimpkn
ogglj gx cdpyieaw fpzd jqcd iamgqa ikm iypmpzw zdiz dr iesgjz rkzparew
krnerczrm zdr bqajqpz gx dpj xprem-jbgazj, ikm ryrk zdr sikinrsrkz gx dpj
bagbrazw; ikm zg jqcd i bpzcd mpm dpj rinrakrjj ikm pkxizqizpgk ng zdiz
dr jgem sikw ik icar gx zpeeinreikm zg oqw ogglj gx cdpyieaw zg arim, ikm
oagqndz dgsr ij sikw gx zdrs ij dr cgqem nrz. oqz gx iee zdrar frar kgkr
dr eplrm jg free ij zdgjr gx zdr xisgqj xrepcpikg mr jpeyi'j cgsbgjpzpgk,
xga zdrpa eqcpmpzw gx jzwer ikm cgsbepcizrm cgkcrpzj frar ij briaej pk
dpj jpndz, biazpcqeiaew fdrk pk dpj arimpkn dr cisr qbgk cgqazjdpbj ikm
ciazrej, fdrar dr gxzrk xgqkm bijjinrj eplr "zdr arijgk gx zdr qkarijgk
fpzd fdpcd sw arijgk pj ixxepczrm jg frilrkj sw arijgk zdiz fpzd arijgk p
sqasqa iz wgqa oriqzw;" ga inipk, "zdr dpnd driyrkj, zdiz gx wgqa
mpypkpzw mpypkrew xgazpxw wgq fpzd zdr jziaj, arkmra wgq mrjraypkn gx zdr
mrjraz wgqa narizkrjj mrjrayrj." gyra cgkcrpzj gx zdpj jgaz zdr bgga
nrkzersik egjz dpj fpzj, ikm qjrm zg epr ifilr jzapypkn zg qkmrajzikm
zdrs ikm fgas zdr srikpkn gqz gx zdrs; fdiz iapjzgzer dpsjrex cgqem kgz
diyr simr gqz ga rhzaiczrm dim dr cgsr zg epxr inipk xga zdiz jbrcpie
bqabgjr. dr fij kgz iz iee rijw iogqz zdr fgqkmj fdpcd mgk orepikpj niyr
ikm zggl, orciqjr pz jrrsrm zg dps zdiz, nariz ij frar zdr jqanrgkj fdg
dim cqarm dps, dr sqjz diyr dim dpj xicr ikm ogmw cgyrarm iee gyra fpzd
jrisj ikm jciaj. dr cgssrkmrm, dgfryra, zdr iqzdga'j fiw gx rkmpkn dpj
oggl fpzd zdr bagspjr gx zdiz pkzraspkioer imyrkzqar, ikm sikw i zpsr fij
dr zrsbzrm zg zilr qb dpj brk ikm xpkpjd pz bagbraew ij pj zdrar
bagbgjrm, fdpcd kg mgqoz dr fgqem diyr mgkr, ikm simr i jqccrjjxqe bprcr
gx fgal gx pz zgg, dim kgz narizra ikm sgar iojgaopkn zdgqndzj baryrkzrm
dps.
